\section{Introduction} \label{intro} 

Spectroscopy is one of the most powerful tool that is used by scientists to
understand the structure and properties of physical systems. In chemistry,
spectroscopy is applied for obtaining characteristic quantities of the matter
and its chemical environment. An electromagnetic radiation source can be set up
in the experiments and then the impact of the radiation on the system is
measured as a function of wavelength and frequency. \cite{Svanberg2023} As for
the theoretical counterpart, quantum chemical methods based on the
Schr\"odinger equation (SE) are developed for calculating the properties of the
excited states or the response properties induced by the external
electromagnetic field, which is long-established and prevalent  in the field.
They bridge, validate, guide, and compensate the experimental studies.
Interesting and spectacular up-to-date applications including but not limited
to: Utilizing UV absorption spectra calculated with density functional theory
(DFT) for the determination of molnupiravir, a drug developed for mild
COVID-19, in a more environmental friendly pharmaceutical
preparation;\cite{Abdelazim2023} Predicting interstellar molecules guided by a
coupled cluster (CC) calculation of rotational spectra for astronomical
searches;\cite{Puzzarini2023} A rapid classification of tea products
incorporating configuration interaction (CI) calculations with f X-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measured in experiments.\cite{Jiang2022} The
development of an efficient and accurate method for calculating such properties
is always highly in need, especially for higher-order properties such as
specific rotation that are much more demanding in terms of computational
resources compared to energies or dipole moments.

For quantum chemical calculations, solving the Schr\"odinger equation is
essential. However, obtaining the exact solution is only feasible for the
simplest systems. Hartree-Fock (HF)\cite{Slater1951, Szabo2012} approximation
of the wave function is one of the most fundamental in computational chemistry.
The key to the HF approximation is to write the many-electron wave function as
a single determinant consisting of molecular orbitals called Slater determinant
which is regularly used as a reference state for many other higher levels of
theory. Other more accurate approaches based upon HF are called post
Hartree-Fock (post-HF) methods accordingly which compensate the
electron-electron correlation that is beyond the Slater determinant. For
example, the configuration interaction (CI) method\cite{Sherrill1999}
represents the exact wave function as a linear combination of Slater
determinants so that all the electron configurations can be included with a
complete basis (the number of N-electron functions in the basis set is
infinite). Although full CI can give the exact solution of the N-electron
problem formally, it is often extremely expensive whereas truncated CI is not
size-extensive leading to difficulties in studying larger systems. Another
important approximation for the correlation energy is coupled cluster (CC)
theory.\cite{Crawford2000} Different from CI, the coupled cluster operator
applies to the reference wave function in an exponential form. This unique
exponential ansatz gives rise to the most important characteristics of coupled
cluster, size-consistency and further, size-extensivity. CC methods are
systematically improvable and in practice, they are often used in truncated
form. Coupled cluster singles and doubles with a perturbed triples correction
(CCSD(T))\cite{Purvis1982} is referred to the golden standard. Other truncated
CC methods include CCD, CCSD, CC2,\cite{Christiansen1995} CC3,\cite{Koch1997}
CCSDT and etc. In this work, CC serves for the role of the wave function
approximation binding with the approaches targeting response properties. Since
CC methods are the substantial part of the foundation and the objectives in
this work, the basis and working equations that are used in Chapter 3 and 4
will be presented in Chapter 2. 

For the response properties specifically, response theory and real-time methods
are the two prominent approaches. Molecular properties induced by
frequency-dependent external fields must naturally be calculated with a
time-dependent approach. In 1928, Rosenfeld first published time-dependent
perturbation methods and defined two optical activity tensors (also known as
Rosenfeld tensors) that are related to the polarizability and the specific
rotation respectively, laying the foundations of subsequent
studies.\cite{Rosenfeld1929} To avoid the summation runs over all the excited
states involved in the formula of Rosenfeld tensors, linear response theory
(LR)\cite{Olsen1985, Sekino1984} becomes a more practical and conventional
approach with the excitation states replaced by the response of the ground
state. The frequency-dependent response functions for the optical activity
tensors are derived starting from a time-dependent perturbed Hamiltonian.
Response theory agrees with the experimental data very well, especially for
spectroscopic properties.\cite{Kobayashi1994, Roos1996, Coriani2012} Its root
in the perturbation theory, however, limits its applications with strong
external fields. In Chapter 4, LR, particularly LR-CC results are used as the
reference values in the examination of the accuracy of the proposed novel
approaches where weak interactions between the molecules and the fields are
involved. The fundamentals will be included in Chapter 2. 

Real-time methods, on the other hand, is a non-perturbative approach that can
cope with strong external fields beyond perturbation theory.\cite{Goings2018,
Li2020} With an explicit time-dependency, properties are calculated in the
time-domain by propagating wave function parameters based on the time-dependent
Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE). The properties can further be transformed into
the full frequency-domain by means of, for example, Fourier transform (FT)
without a designated narrow frequency range. Other advantages including the
natural connection to the experiments, the potential of combining advanced
techniques in other fields such as laser spectroscopy and numerical integration
are also key drivers of the development of real-time methods. As mentioned
earlier, this work will focus on the implementations with CC approximation. For
real-time coupled cluster (RT-CC) methods, the challenge lies in two aspects:
1. The long propagation time for a high resolution of the spectra and the small
step size for the adequate numerical stability of the simulation; 2. The
balance between the better accuracy with higher level of theory and the high
computational cost stemmed from the polynomial scaling of CC methods. As a
guide of general RT-CC simulations, the derivation of the differential
equations of the coupled cluster amplitudes and the consideration of the
external field and resulting properties are included in Chapter 2. 

Succeeding studies that seek for the strategies to accelerate the simulations
are shown in Chapter 3 addressing the problem in computational and numerical
aspects. Three perspectives are given: investigating the capability of the
single-precision arithmetic compared to the conventional double-precision in
quantum chemistry for the properties of interest; migrating the calculation
from CPU to GPU to speed up the tensor contraction which is the major component
of the working equations and most expensive part of the calculation; adopting
and tailoring adaptive numerical integrators for RT-CC methods in order to
lower the computational cost and improve the numerical stability particularly
considering the high-intensity external fields. Chapter 4, instead, mainly
presents the derivation and applications of real-time approximate coupled
cluster singles, doubles and triples (RT-CC3) model with the singles amplitudes
treated as zeroth-order and performing a function of  approximate orbital
relaxation parameters. In addition to the absorption spectrum, polarizability,
first hyperpolarizability and Gâ€™ tensor that is related to the optical rotation
are also extracted from the real-time simulation with finite-difference
method.\cite{Ding2013} Results are compare to RT-CCSD. Furthermore, a
comparison with real-time (RT) time-dependent orbital-optimized coupled cluster
doubles (TDOCCD)\cite{Krylov2000, Kristiansen2022} are carried out to explore
more information about the mechanism and importance of orbital relaxation in
real-time methods. A summary and conclusion section will be in Chapter 5 in the
end. 
